#summary Basic developer manual

= Multifit/Polydefix Basic Developer Manual =

== Introduction ==

Both Multifit and Polydefix are developed using the IDL programming language from the [http://www.ittvis.com/ ITT Visual Information Solutions]. The main source code is located here, at Google Code and available to every one. 

It is distributed as a package for the IDL virtual machine, which can be downloaded for free from the [http://www.ittvis.com/ ITT website].

In order to develop and improve Multifit and Polydefix, however, you will need to purchase a license for IDL.

IDL comes with a complex eclipse-based development environment in a graphical user interface (gui), called idlde in linux, for editing projects. Over the years the gui became more and more complex to use. It is a complete overkill for what we are doing here. Moreover, with each upgrade of IDL came with issues and it simply stopped working. Therefore, I decided to _completely quit using the IDL gui_ for developing applications and develop multifit/polydefix in text mode only. You are welcome to try using the gui, if you want, but I will not help you with it.

The instructions below assume you are running linux. If you are on a mac or on windows, there should be a way to get it working as well. Drop me an email if you have instructions I can include here.

== Getting the code ==

The main codes are located in
 * Multifit: https://multifit-polydefix.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Multifit
 * Polydefix: https://multifit-polydefix.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Polydefix
 * PolydefixED: https://multifit-polydefix.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/PolydefixED

You should first create a folder for storing a local copy of your codes
{{{
mkdir ~/IDL
}}}

Then, you should download the latest version of the code. For multifit, for instance
{{{
cd ~/IDL
svn checkout https://multifit-polydefix.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Multifit
}}}
This will create a `Multifit` folder within the folder you created.

== Compiling, editing, and playing with the code ==

Now that you downloaded the latest version of the code, you can simply open the files in your favorite text editor. We, here in Lille, use `kate`, one of the KDE text editor. It does have a specific mode for coloring IDL codes (select `Tools -> Highlighting -> Sources -> RSI IDL`).

To compile and run the code, you should move into the folder with your source, start IDL in the command line, and type `@build`:
{{{
cd ~/IDL/Multifit
idl
@build
}}}
You can then test your changes by typing `multifit` in the command line. It will start the latest version you compiled.

Once you're done, if you want to quit IDL, simply type `exit` in the IDL command line.

The IDL development environment creates a lot of problems. On the other hand, the online help is extremely helpful. To start the help from the command line, simply type `idlhelp`.

== Exchanging information with the google servers

To download a more recent version of the code from the google server, open a unix terminal (do not start IDL), move into the folder with the code, and update its content using subversion:
{{{
cd ~/IDL/Multifit
svn update
}}}

Tu upload your changes to the google servers, open a unix terminal (do not start IDL), move into the folder with the code, and upload your changes using subversion:
{{{
cd ~/IDL/Multifit
svn commit --username YOUR_USER_NAME   --password YOUR_PASSWORD -m "Tell us what you did"
}}}
The `Tell us what you did` section is extremely important. Write a simple text explaining what you did with the code. It is recorded with your upload so other users can understand what you were trying to do.

== Old instructions ==

You can get the codes from within IDL. In IDL
 * Select the menu item _Window -> Source Control -> Subversion_. It may ask you to install some extension. To be honest, I can't remember which one I chose.
 * You will see a tab _SVN Repositories_, click on the _New repository location_ icon.
 * Enter the URL, listed above, and give it a label such as _Multifit_, _Polydefix_, or _PolydefixED_,
 * Username and password are not necessary to get the code, but will be required if you want to upload your code back.
 * In the _SVN Repositories_ view, right click on the project name on the SVN server, select _Checkout_,
 * IDL will then copy the current version of Multifit into your working directory.
 * To start working on your own copy, open the _Project view_ in IDL. What you downloaded will show up as a project with the label you chose earlier.

== Updating your version ==

If you want to update the version you have and download the most current version, right click on the repository name and select _Checkout_.

== Working on the code ==

You can word on your local copy, which should be somewhere in your project tree.

To compile: 
 * Right click on the project name in the project explorer and select _Define as working directory_. This should be done once.
 * In the IDL console, type `@build`

This will compile all files and create the sav archive you can run from the IDL virtual machine.

To run from within IDL, 
 * type `polydefixED` to run polydefixED
 * type `polydefix` to run polydefix
 * type `Multifit` to run Multifit

== Upload your changes ==

Only people allowed by me, S. Merkel, will be allowed to upload changes. I am fairly open though, just ask for permission.

Once you feel ready, upload your changes. To do so, right click on the project name and select _Team -> Commit_. In the dialog, leave a comment giving people an idea of what you did. This is mandatory or you will be kicked out of the project.

Last advise: upload your changes often to avoid conflicts with other developers.

== Creating a new branch ==

Once we feel we are ready for a new version, I will create a new "Branch" with the command 
{{{
svn copy https://multifit-polydefix.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Multifit https://multifit-polydefix.googlecode.com/svn/branches/Multifit-X.X -m "Creating version XXX"
}}}